I Am a Man is a declaration of civil rights, often used as a personal statement and as a declaration of independence against oppression. =="Am I not a man?"== Historically, in countries such as the United States and South Africa, the term "boy" was used as a pejorative racist insult towards men of color and slaves, indicating their subservient social status of being less than men. In response, "Am I not a man and a brother?" became a catchphrase used by British and American abolitionists. In 1787, Josiah Wedgwood designed the Wedgwood anti-slavery medallion. He copied the original design from the Society for Effecting the Abolition of the Slave Trade as a cameo in black and white. It was widely reproduced and became a popular fashion statement promoting justice, humanity, and freedom. The question "Am I not a man?" was brought up again during the Dred Scott decision of the U.S. Supreme Court in 1857.Am I Not a Man? by Mark L. Shurtleff. Reviewed by Robert Fleming. AALBC. During the Civil Rights Movement at the Memphis sanitation strike in 1968, "I Am a Man!" signs were used to answer the same question. On trial for bringing his son back to Nebraska for burial, from a forced march to Oklahoma, in 1879 Ponca Chief Standing Bear spoke to Judge Dundy in his Omaha trial, "That hand is not the color of yours, but if I pierce it, I shall feel pain. If you pierce your hand, you also feel pain. The blood that will flow from mine will be the same color as yours. I am a man. God made us both." Standing Bear (and Native Americans) were granted habeas corpus meaning that they had status in the court and were indeed human beings. "I Am a Man": Chief Standing Bear's Journey for Justice, Joe Starita 2010. ==Modern use== "I Am a Man!" has been used as a title for books, plays, and in musicRon Miles, "Ron Miles: I Am A Man", All About Jazz, October 27, 2017. and filmMarc Myers, "Mining the Memphis Sound", The Wall Street Journal, June 17, 2011. to assert the rights of all people to be treated with dignity. "I Am a Man!" was a foundational reference in Derek DelGaudio's theater show "In & Of Itself." DelGaudio created 1,000 "I AM" cards, each with a different descriptor. Before each show, audience members were instructed, "Choose how you wish to be seen." "I am a man" is one of the many pre-approved social justice messages the NBA allowed their players to display on the back of their jersey during the remainder of the 2019-2020 NBA season. Additional messages include: "Black Lives Matter; Say Their Names; Vote; I Can't Breathe; Justice; Peace; Equality; Freedom; Enough; Power to the People; Justice Now; Say Her Name; Sí Se Puede (Yes We Can); Liberation; See Us; Hear Us; Respect Us; Love Us; Listen; Listen to Us; Stand Up; Ally; Anti-Racist; Speak Up; How Many More; Group Economics; Education Reform; and Mentor" according to the NBAPA. Untitled (I Am a Man),1988 painting by Glenn Ligon as a reinterpretation of the signs carried during the Memphis sanitation strike in 1968. ==Other uses== * The Elephant Man declares, "I am not an elephant! I am not an animal! I am a human being! I ... am ... a ... man!" == See also == * Ain't I a Woman? * Death of Echol Cole and Robert Walker * I Am – Somebody * Manish Boy == References == Category:Statements Category:Slogans Category:Civil rights protests Chief Standing Bear https://www.nps.gov/mnrr/learn/historyculture/standingbear.htm/