I Believe in Science () is an Arabic-language website dedicated to publishing translations of science articles and research, with the aim of keeping the Arabic speaking world up-to-date with the latest scientific discoveries and accomplishments. The project has amassed more than 2000 volunteers who managed to produce around 15000 scientific articles.(27 July 2014). "I believe in science", El Watan "I believe in science. A volunteering journey seeking knowledge", Dot Masr,17 March 2015. Issam Fawaz is the CEO. ==History== The project started in 2011 by Ahmed Al-Rayes, an Iraqi geologist living in Lebanon, across social media platforms,(16 March 2018). مبادرات تبسيط العلوم... عندما يروي «توم وجيري» قصتنا مع الفيروسات , Asharq Al-Awsat (in Arabic) (article describes project as largest Arabic website on scientific information, established in 2011, with more than two million followers on Facebook and over 10,000 articles) the website was established in 2013. They paid tribute to a few of the women who volunteer translating research in March 2015 for International Women's Day. In 2016, the idea became an official NGO registered in both Lebanon and the European Union. In 2012, the project adopted the slogan: I Believe in Science because it’s the only methodology that actually works The project goals are: * Removing and breaking the linguistic barriers that once prevented the Arabic speaking world from reaching true scientific knowledge, by creating a free uninfluenced platform to exchange knowledge and expertise * Creating and encouraging an environment for the Arab speaking population, that belongs to a hostile culture towards scientific truth, to read and seek scientific knowledge * Showing the efficiency of the scientific methodology in explaining the biggest phenomena's surrounding us by focusing on objectivity, refutability and applicability of natural sciences and their discoveries Physicist Lawrence Krauss is among the scientists who have commented favorably on the project. Similarly, biologist Robert Weinberg has said: == References == ==External links== *IBelieveinSci.com (website) *I Believe in Science on Facebook Category:Internet properties established in 2011 Category:Science websites Category:Organizations established in 2011 Category:Lebanese educational websites Category:Non-profit organisations based in Lebanon Category:Arabic- language websites Category:Science and technology in Lebanon