I Am Syd Stone is a Canadian short drama film, directed by Denis Theriault and released in 2014.Sam Fraser, "Syd Stone rolls on with new web series". The Coast, December 26, 2019. ==Plot synopsis== The film centres on Syd Stone (Gharrett Patrick Paon), a closeted gay movie star filming a made-for-TV film called Soccer Dad, while worrying about his high school reunion. While there, he tries to mentor his young co-star, who has an emotionally abusive father. At his hotel near the movie set, Syd meets a handsome, young lawyer in town representing a defendant in a murder trial, Brent (Michael Gaty) who awakens his repressed sexuality. Matters are further complicated when his trophy girlfriend shows up unexpectedly.Tim Isaac, "I Am Syd Stone Trailer – Take a look at the Iris Prize nominated gay-themed short film". Big Gay Picture Show, August 13, 2014. ==Release== The film was an entrant in the 2014 Iris Prize festival, and was included in Volume 12 of the Boys on Film series of LGBTQ- themed short film DVDs.Tim Isaac, "Boys On Film 12: Confession (DVD Review)". Big Gay Picture Show, November 24, 2014. ==Reinvention as serial== In 2019 Theriault expanded the original short film into a six-part web series. Although Paon remained associated as a producer, he and Theriault agreed to recast the lead role, which was played by Travis Nelson. In the web series, Syd Stone's career as an actor has faded; he is now on location in a small town to film a B-movie, and meets and falls for lawyer Matt (Benjamin Charles Watson) but must confront the emotional consequences of having remained closeted for the sake of his career. The series is set in the present day, and alludes to the events of the original film; however, it reportedly gives Stone a happier ending. The web series was screened at the 2020 Inside Out Film and Video Festival,Dino-Ray Ramos, "Inside Out LGBT Film Festival To Feature ‘The Boys In The Band’, ‘The Obituary Of Tunde Johnson’, ‘Cowboys’ And More For Virtual Edition". Deadline Hollywood, September 9, 2020. in advance of its public web premiere. Watson received a Canadian Screen Award nomination for Best Supporting Performance in a Web Program or Series at the 10th Canadian Screen Awards in 2022.Brent Furdyk, "2022 Canadian Screen Award Nominees Announced, ‘Sort Of’ & ‘Scarborough’ Lead The Pack". ET Canada, February 15, 2022. ==References== ==External links== * * Category:2014 films Category:2014 LGBT-related films Category:Canadian LGBT-related short films Category:LGBT- related drama films Category:Canadian LGBT-related web series Category:Canadian drama web series Category:2010s English-language films Category:Canadian drama short films Category:2010s Canadian films